what we have here is a completely normal
language textbook for a completely
normal language but the advice I'm about
to give you is wildly abnormal is
totally unlike anything you're gonna
hear on YouTube
or I think anything you're gonna find
via the internet as it has now been
restructured and reordered by social
media it's a normal text book it's got
cartoons it's got an audio CD it's got
lists of vocabulary it's got little
songs for you to sing really in this
case it's Chinese but it's not so
different from a textbook you might have
for any other language right now I'm
helping my girlfriend learn Chinese and
she's starting from a beginners level
what's the best possible advice I could
give her on how to start with this
textbook turn to the appendix tear it
out of the book write out the entire
list of vocabulary and memorize every
single word before you start on page one
of chapter one I doubt that any
university professor has ever suggest
this to you any high school teacher any
internet personality who's out here
peddling advice on how to make learning
languages quick and easy and fun and
painless and that's the problem learning
languages is not quick it's not easy
it's not fun and it's not painless I
have many years of experience with
learning and teaching languages and I
now have many years of experience
watching the myth-making process that
goes on here on YouTube and what
sitter's to me is parallel to the
fitness world people giving you advice
on how to lose body fat and gain muscle
the vast majority of people who are
selling you myths of fast and easy
language learning they don't make any
money out of it they're not selling you
an application they're not selling you a
book they're not selling you a course
what's the time they don't even have a
website most time they're not even
making really any money out of YouTube
they're just giving you they're telling
you what you want to hear you don't want
to hear that gaining muscle with the gym
is gonna be physically painful and
physically exhausting that it's gonna
ruin your night sleep make you wake up
feeling like crap that you're gonna be
standing at your job with unbelievable
pain in your back in your arms and your
legs that you're gonna literally
collapse on the floor of the gym and lie
there out of breath nobody wants to hear
that and indeed even in video format
here on YouTube most of the time you
don't see that I had a few little
anecdotal encounters with people
recently that reminded me of this side
of the fitness game and how rare it is
for people to even be honest about it
when they're talking about their own
process of how they lost weight how they
gain muscle etc etc just omitting pain
just omitting lost nights of sleep when
you couldn't sleep well because of
muscle stiffness or muscle all that
stuff is left out and there's a really
odd comparison to be made here because
one of the most compelling myths in
language teaching and language
acquisition is ultimately what we would
call a naturalistic fallacy
now not all uses of the concept of
nature are fallacious
but suppose someone were to say to you
the best way for you to lose body fat
and gain muscle is to hike up and down
mountains and to climb trees and to walk
around in the forest carrying a bow and
arrow and shoot the bow and arrow of
things because that's what our ancient
ancestors did that's natural you might
find that convincing you might look at
the unnatural steel-cage at your gym and
suddenly feel like the veil has been
lifted from your eyes this is some kind
of perverse postmodern concoction that
in no way can compare to the historical
genetic
variants of our ancestors over millions
of years maybe you decide that you
should go back to the jungle go back to
the forest climb mountains and climb
trees and see what kind of results you
can get the thing is if you do this for
just three months or six months it's
gonna be very obvious to you very
quickly but because it's empirically
visible that the results you're getting
are not nearly as good as what you could
have achieved in the same amount of time
and the same amount of effort using that
steel cage and those heavy weights those
unnatural cultural and scientific
accretions that people have figured out
for how to lose body fat and how to gain
muscle mass what I hear and see again
and again here on YouTube and yes I've
dealt with it face to face with people
in real life is that the natural way to
learn language is to imitate what babies
and toddlers do because what babies and
toddlers do is supposedly fun and
effortless compared to this now there's
a lot wrong with this appeal to nature
fallacy including the way in which it's
used as an excuse or a pretext to
recommend that you do the types of low
effort self-indulgent activities that
you as a YouTube viewer may already be
inclined to want to make excuses for
doing anyway
so I see protracted method logically
sophisticated discussions of how the
best way to acquire a new piece of
vocabulary is this hand hand the same
way a little baby is shown a hand and is
told the word hand repeatedly that
you're gonna pick this up in your second
language your third language whatever it
is your your your study that this is
something infinitely better than working
with unnatural methods like the steel
cage in the gym more discursive and
analytical methods methods that involve
reading and discussion and learning and
repetition and what and what have you
and um here's the thing if you pick up
vocabulary
'we a 5 year old does hand hand how do
you now interpret the word hand when I
give you the following sentence economic
development and political liberalisation
go hand in hand you may not realize it
but from a five-year-old's perspective
that's really baffling five-year-olds
don't talk that way even most 10
year-olds who by that point will have
had more than 5 years of formal
education and enormous hours of informal
education you can't possibly reproduce
as an adult more on that later they
don't talk that way they can't read and
easily understand language communication
that way they haven't been taught the
range of idiomatic and just
syntactically complex ways in which we
actually use the concept of hand and if
you think English is the most difficult
language in the world for this you're
dead wrong it gets way harder and there
are all kinds of examples that are even
outside of the scope of what you can
find in dictionaries if you're using
modern and discursive methods if you
really wanted to reproduce the natural
form of learning a language the way a
toddler does or the way a young school
child does would you be interested in
employing an elderly woman to live in
your apartment with you and to pretend
to be your grandmother an old woman who
forces you to do household chores and
step-by-step corrects you whenever you
say the wrong word forces you to say
banal sentences back and forth or who is
spooning you I don't know tofu and is
saying - again again tofu tofu
no no tofu giving you this kind of
experience with an elderly parental
figure I've lived in countries like Laos
and Cambodia where this really is the
main way the language is communicated
between the generations and in some
respects those cultures are very pure
examples of this grandparent to
grandchild language transmission because
the grandparents often have
zero formal education and even zero
literacy you have illiterate
grandparents who are putting in long
hours of repeating simple words and
phrases to young children but again
guess what the results are
after thousands of hours of language
immersion by age 10 they can barely
string together a sentence like a
lisping ten-year-old if you're starting
now at age 30 or even if you're watching
this video and you're aged 15 after five
years of spending hundreds of hours
thousands of hours intensively studying
a language and an enormous amount of
money paying for teachers of different
kinds you do not want to be at the level
of sophistication and language ability
that is achieved by a child after five
years of learning those methods and if
you really started to make an inventory
of how infants small children and young
school children learn their first
language let alone a second language if
you start putting together the number of
hours of the day that are really spent
in language practice of various kinds
it's going to start to dawn on you just
how many people you're gonna have to pay
how much money to play some kind of
parenting or grandparenting role in
helping you through this but coming back
to the comparison with lifting weights
at the gym in a steel cage as opposed to
getting out in the wilderness climbing
up a mountain gaining muscle the natural
way the naturalistic fallacy the appeal
to nature the idea that you should do
things in the most natural way possible
with Fitness this encounters a limit
because the results are empirically
obvious you can take off your shirt and
look in the mirror and see how you're
doing and you may be able to compare
yourself to your brother or your cousin
and what he resolves he's getting at the
at the gym etc etc and with language
those comparisons are not obvious
they're very difficult for you to
perceive yourself they're difficult for
other people to perceive measure or even
Grady won and it's incredibly easy for
you to lie to your
self and mislead yourself and imagine
that you're making much more progress in
the language than you actually are guys
are gonna keep this video short I
sincerely do not know if I'm gonna put
my girlfriend through the agony of rote
memorization of several hundred words of
raw vocabulary before she starts on page
one chapter one of this textbook it's
not fun it's not easy it's not natural
did I ever do that when studying a
language yes I did I studied a language
very few Western people study that's
called poly pa Li and I was highly
motivated to study that language even
though I had no teacher and in a sense I
had no textbooks leave that aside um
and I decided that with all three of the
textbooks are used starting off
textbooks I to some extent had to
rewrite and reformat myself and post on
the internet myself put together of bits
and pieces or typed out from old printed
copies I found in Sri Lanka long story
was putting together my own educational
materials on this and indeed typing out
the entire textbook myself this is
already a significant form of language
practice most people would never engage
in and of course I had to type out the
entire index the index of vocabulary at
the back as an appendix and I decided
I'm going to memorize every single word
and in some cases they were both words
and word forms so that's like not just
the word but also a common ending like
with an ing ending on it that kind of
thing um before I start on page one
chapter one of this textbook and you
know what that allows you to do it means
that when you're reading specific
examples your limited time energy and
focus is going into the heart of the
language exercise instead of just
struggling to remember or remind
yourself or figure out basic items of
vocabulary so you have a sentence like
the man walked down the road from the
hillside until he came to the
of a certain tree let's say it's a
persimmon tree so when I looked at a
sentence like that I'm able to focus on
the relationships between the words the
grammar figuring out oh sorry so he's
coming down the hill or is he going up
the hill I already recognized all the
basic words he'll walk tree I probably
will not know persimmon I probably won't
work as the type of tree it is I can
look that up in a dictionary or not
because I'm still understanding most of
the sentence what I'm doing with the
language exercise reading writing and
practice is profoundly different because
I went through this unnatural heavy
lifting process of preparation of
memorizing the vocabulary and you know I
noticed something I taught myself that
language while being very busy with a
number of full-time jobs while studying
other languages like Thai and lotion
which are members of a completely
different language family well being
busy with all the regular things of
doing my dishes and taking a shower and
going to the gym I really didn't have
that much time to kill
but in maybe two years I had learned
much more of that language than any of
the people with PhDs in the field whom I
met and I was able to look at complex
statements about philosophy in the
language and have a huge advantage
partly just because I was starting on
the basis of rote memorization of
vocabulary and then I built on top of
that the ability to practice what you
might call the more sophisticated issues
of syntax grammar just trying to get the
whole meaning of a sentence out of the
ways in which the the different words
are juxtaposed and let me tell you
something well you've already got all
six meanings of the word hand memorized
then it's very different when you see in
a peculiar context the usage like
economic development and political
progress go hand in hand you're starting
from a sophisticated discursive
knowledge of the range of possible
meanings an explanation may be also of
how in some contexts this is a verb in
some contexts it's a noun etcetera
etcetera you're starting from an
natural artificial scientific
sophisticated knowledge of how the word
is used in the language that indeed a
ten-year-old doesn't have a
five-year-old doesn't have a toddler or
a baby doesn't have that the majority of
people never develop in their first
language but that empowers you as a
rational thinking intelligent adult to
make rapid progress progress much much
more quickly than a native speaker does
between a 2-0 and age 10 this is the
advice that nobody wants to hear